Devops ?

Devops is a practice that actually bring Dev, ops, Hr, Testing  therir activites.together in a collebrative fashion using proper process and technicques to achive fastest and relieabl s/w releases.


Ultimate intention of Devops is Faster Realeases with High Quality.

Q)How Devops is differnt from Agile?
Agile is a methodology 
Scrum framework is a particular process and ruls and 
Development activites - each sprint has a number of tasks 
Agile deals with Dev start and Dev end.

How the production support, releases, operstion.

Devops talks about END to END life cycle.

Devops is a mostly called as a practiceIts different from Agile

What is the Need of Devops ? 

Increase deployment frequency.
Low failure rates.
Shortend lead time to  fix the issues.
Faster recovery interms of failure.

Monitoring the applicatipion weather it is giving required results or not.

Name the Devops tools?
Tools you will choose?

SCM tool - GIT- DVCMTool 
MAVEN - BUILD and compile of code.
ARTIFACT - NAXAS,
All this integrated in the continuos integraion tool - JENKINS.
SELINIUM - TEST TOOL
To deploy this app in envrioment run and up- you should have provisiong system (puppet, CHEF, Ansible) provide provision to the seervers and deploy the application.

DOcker for Micro sericve app.

What does git performs in Devops ?

To store the code and share the code repository with others.
Git is a distriubuted VCS and SVN is a client server based.

Centralised Repository (original repository) -- actually dev take a copy of repo and commit and push the repository.

SVN - Cvcs - Central repositor is avilable  centraisled servers -it just copy the contents requried workspace and contents and commit the changes.

------------
Git commit -m "original "
Git revert "original"

CI
Based on your commit on your branch
CI the change branch, truch to master
Compiled and give the feedback to the develoepr.

You integarate your code with other deveoloper code and has to be compile/Build, test and deploy it is called CI.


Best practice.

All the code by developer has to be commited on the master branch and the master branch is integrated with the CI server like jenkins , bamboo and each commit build trigger automatic test and followed by deployment.

Jenkins is a CI server it won't work without plugin..!
email notification ,html publisher, 

----

Jenkins Distributed Architechture secureof jenkins?
Ensure global secutiy ON
Periodically run security.

Difference PUll and push configuration?

push 
---
Centralised server stores the configuation information of all your nodes like node a, b,c,d.
If a change nodes needs to receive t


Either centralised server push the changes to the required nodes.

Pull

Contiously nodes will check with centalised server if any changes need it will pull the changes from it

is pushing the code in to respective nodes.
Some configuration tools works based on the push based mechanisim like ANSIMBLE
Some configuration tools works based on the pull based mechanisim like PUPPET and CHEF.
















